Melee How to Play

So this is a first draft of some new role playing mechanics I have been working on. Some backstory: I've like the idea of giving players options for what they can do in combat so they can be creative with the combat and spice things up. I've also really enjoy fighting games so I wanted to integrate the fight game into the RPG space. And this is what I have so far.

Right now this only handles melee combat (which is why im code naming it Melee), but I do expect and already have concepts for how magic and range combat will work. I think the game will be dark souls esq in this reguard as my current concept makes Range the easiest to play, magic the second hardest, and melee the hardest to play. This document will for now only focus on the Melee.

Turn order
	The turns consist of a few phases.
	First you determine initive. Each character rolls 1d10 + REF/5. Roll off another d10 to break ties.
	The Phases:

	1. Card Selection Phase - Select a card to play and play it face down until everyone has placed a card faced down. Also remove 1 Exhaustion Token.

	2. Reveal Phase - Everyone reveals there cards. If a player reveals a fast card (Red Mana) they may choose to have it downgrade to a slow.

	3. Fast Phase - Only Caracters who played fast cards (Red Mana) can. First each character can move 5ft (All characters natualy can move 5ft per turn, 1 space). This happens in order of reverse inititive (lowest first). NOTE: targets are considered to exist in both there starting and final posistions of this phase. This is because everything technicly happens at the same time here and prevents people with high inititive from running without penalty. (This doesnt quite feel right ATM).
	Then all fast card actions happen now. This all happens at the same time. Cards with the 'interuptable' tag will not occur if another attack against them succeeds. If two interuptable abilities both succeed against each other, then both get canceled.

	4. Slow phase - Only players who declared a downgrade for a fast card or those who played a slow card (Blue Mana) play this turn. This works exactly the same as the Fast Phase. Also note that if a player had a succesful attack made against them in the fast phase, it still interupts any interuptable cards in the slow phase.

	And those are all the phases of combat. All cards played, except stance cards come back to your hand after you reveal them.

	Also because cause all moves are simultanous if at another ability would make one maneuver invalid in the same phase. The best example of this is if one breaks a grapple and is thrown at the same time. It this case because the grapple break makes one no longer grappled, and because grappled is required to be thrown, then the grapple break no longer makes the throw valid. Now if the grapple break is interupted by another ability then and the throw (which is generally uninteruptable) is still valid and will happen.

Some Key Words
	There are a few key words used in this document and the cards. Below are their descriptions

	Maneuvers - The cards you play and their resulting actions.

	Exhaustion Token - These can be given out by cards you or your opponents cards. At the beginning of your Card Selection Phase. If you have any Exhaustion Tokens, remove one. Your move for this turn reguardless of what you play will be considered slow.

	Stress token - Like Exhaustion these can be given to your or your opponents by the maneuvers you perform and can be removed only by other maneuvers. When one has a Stress token, nothing really changes, but any time you receive a second  stress token, it automaticly converts to a Exhaustion token. (I have considered removing this and instead only having exhaustion tokens and say making people have a natural defence from exhaustion of say one token. Any more and the effect goes into play, the main problem is that is exhustion is sometimes too strong of a penelty and I really wanted people to gain something from playing a Null Maneuver. Also with a tolerance off one exhaustion it might be to easy to avoid)

	Interuptable - Maneuvers with this Key Word have its effects completely nullified if an attack was successfully made against you. Two successful interuptable attacks cancel each other out

	Light Attack/Heavy Attack - Most attack cards have a light and heavy mode. The light is typicly low damage and does not have many extra effects attached to the attack. Heavys on the otherhand, deal more damage and will generally have additional effects attached. Attack cards always convert to the heavy variant if an approprate card was played the previous turn (EX: Flourish for Swords, Wind Up for Brawling).

	Stances - These are special Maneuvers that stay on the field after you play them as a continous effect. Stances are removed as soon as you take damage or make an manuvear that breaks the stance (most stances list which moves do not mean all other manuvers do).

	Breaks Stance - This key word indicates that an opponents stance is broken if the Maneuver successfully completes.

	Unbreakable - Stances with this Key word can not be broken by manuvers with Breaks Stance.

	Burn X (long/short)- This list the number of uses (X) before the card is no longer useable until the specified rest.

	Grappled - This is a condition placed on a character. When one is grappled, their movement is forced to always be 0 and can only play light attacks with short weapons or smaller, null or move.
    If one places the move maneuver they must make a strength check against your fortitude, if one succeeds they do not get a movement bonus from their move maneuver but do break the grapple. If they attack land a successful blow, then the one holding the grappled character must make a Constitution check subtracted by the attacking characters Damage Bonus times 5. If successful the grapple is maintained, otherwise it is broken.

    Stunned - This is another condition the basicly skips the player for the turn. The only way to do this to a player at the moment is to force them to move into a wall or hard object with an ability like heavy kick or with the Critical hit that forces their character to move in some direction.

    Prone - Another Condition. In this state melee attacks made against you are at a +5 and your Reflex is reduced to 0. A player can be placed prone by the throw maneuver.

    Stealthed -  A condition that you have against another person. All players may attemp to be stealthed from a enemy but only a rogue can do it while in combat with the sneek stance. You cannot gain stealthed when enemies are aware of your presence. If you go into stealth your move action is reduce by 5ft and your movement is quiet, enemies need to make a Focus Check against your Reflex to hear you or to see you if they are distracted. If the enemy is not distracted and they see you then your automaticly fail and lost stealthed. If they are in combat then they cannot hear your movement at all and are considered distracted need to make a Focus Check against your Reflex to be aware of your presence. 

    Advantage - Roll 2d10s for d100 and use the result of your choice.

    Disadvatage - Roll 2d10s for 100 and use the worst failure if there is a failure or the lowest success if both suceed. 


        

	




!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!! REDONE DOWN BELLOW !!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

Criticals
	Two other types of successes
		20 - Critical Success. This always hits (for an attack roll). Also roll 1d8 and gain that many crit points. These points can be expended immediatly or saved for later. If out of combat for more then 30 seconds then these points go away.

		19 - Overwhelming Success - Still need to make the hit. Roll 1d6 and gain that many crit points. These points can be expended immediatly or saved for later. If out of combat for more then 30 seconds then these points go away.

		18 - Overwhelming Success - Still need to make the hit. Roll 1d4 and gain that many crit points. These points can be expended immediatly or saved for later. If out of combat for more then 30 seconds then these points go away.

	The crit point table
		X	Deal X Sunder Damage
		2	Move Character 5ft
		3	Give a Character Stress 
		4	Blind
		5	Disarm
		5	Cleave 2 (have to beat the defence of all characters)
		6	Ignore armor
		6	Extra attack
		7	Cleave 3 (have to beat the defence of all characters)
		8	Double damage
		10	Garrentied extra attack




Characters
	
	Fighter level 1
		As a fighter you have trained in the ability to use your whole body in a fight so you gain the Kick Back maneuver. This is an action that has you roll Dexterity against an opponents Reflex or Strength against an opponents Fortitude (your choice). This Kick Back can be Dodged by an opponent.

		In addition you have the ability to quickly recover from the strain of battle. At the beginning of the turn after already handling exhaustion state you can activate your Second Wind. When you do you are unable to be effected by exhaustion this turn and you remove 1 stress. Recovers after long rest.

	Barbarian Level 1
		As a barbarian your are fueled by the anger within you and gain the Rage Stance. Not this has Burn 2 (Long) which means that you have 2 uses before you need to perform a long rest to reset it. While in rage stance your light attacks deal +1 damage and your damage bonus on a heavy attack is doubled. Also all physical damage made against you is halved rounded up. This can stack with armor. This stance is unbreakable, and will only end if you decide to end it at the beginning of the turn or if you have not been dealt damage to or attacked for two turns in a row. When this stand does end, you gain +1 stress.

		Also your body is hard and has learned to naturally absorb the damage from an opponents weapons. If you are not wearing armor, your defense is equal to your fortitude. Also when in Guard Stance you may substitute your reflex for your fortitude.


	Rogue Level 1
		You are an expert in the art of moving subtly. You now have the Sneak Stance maneuver. When you enter this stance you attempt to gain the Stealthed status from any enemies around you. Flourishes and Move actions do not break this stance. The Move action is at -5 ft. While in this stance your attacks have advantage (they still break the stance). 

		You master the art of hitting enemies where it hurts, you know how to expose a weakness. Whenever you gain advantage on an attack you can choose to forgo the advantage, and gain bonus damage if the attack hits. For light attacks 1d6 for damage, and for heavies gain 1d6 multiplied by your dexterity for damage. The damage dice get larger at higher levels.


Fighting Combos
	Combos are a the next thing a character whould be able to chose from after leveling in a class.
	Dual Weapon (No Sheilds)
		Combo 1 - Bezerker Strikes 
			Light or Heavy Attack --> Opposite Hand Heavy ~~

		Combo 2 - Twin Strike
			Heavy Attack --> Heavy Attack: Roll 2 attacks one for each weapon, both have +2 to hit.

	Two Handed (No Polarms)
		Combo 1 - Unstopable Momentum.
			Light or Heavy Attack --> light attack: uninteruptable, and will perform counter to any light attack made by the target --> heavy attack: uncounterable

		Combo 2 - Superior Counter
			Counter --> Heavy Attack ~~

	One Handed (Off hand empty)
		Combo 1 - Slash and Grab
			Light or Heavy Attack, on none grappled target --> Light Weapon Strike, and Grapple foe if successful

		Combo 2 - Dancing Strike
			Dodge --> Heavy Attack ~~

	Weapon and Sheild
		Combo 1 - Spinning Sheild Bash
			Flourish --> Sheild Bash: No Stress penelty from previous flourish ~~

		Combo 2 - Unreleting Assault
			Sheild Bash --> Light Weapon Attack: Uninteruptable --> Sheild Bash: Knock Opponent Prone

	Polearms
		Combo 1 - Shish Kabob Skewer
			Move (10ft minumum must be in Straight line to enemy) --> 5ft range, Heavy Attack: Move with enemy forward up to 15ft.

		Combo 2 - Sweeping Strikes
			Heavy Attack --> Light Attack: 5ft range, Cleaves 3, Knocks Targets Prone --> Heavy Attack ~~




Grab - Attempt to grab a character. Roll Dexterity vs their reflex. If success you are now grappled with the character. Both of your movement speeds are set to 0 while you maintain this grapple. Light attacks with small weapons and unarmed use their respective heavy dammage modifier. Using two unarmed hands to Grab adds +3 to the roll your character makes. The grapple can be released at any time.

Shove - Requires grapple on character. Attempt to shove the grappled character. Roll Strength against their Fortitude. If successful force a character to move 5ft (1 space) in any direction.

Takedown - Requires grapple on a character. Roll Strength against their Fortitude. If successful throw a charcter to the ground knocking them prone. This maneuver will also knock you prone but maintain the grapple. This maneuver can be done at disadvantage allowing your character stay standing, the grapple is lost in this case on success.